Supply chains can be exposed
to a lot of risk that can compromise
how logistics staff are able to perform their daily duties.
Some of the risks can include natural disasters,
strikes, and terrorist attacks.
This can happen at the facility level
or up the supply chain,
such as with the Prime Vendor.
And if and when something like that happens,
it impacts the performance at the hospital level.
For instance, a vendor who makes gloves
is struck by a snow storm.
As a result, they are unable to get supplies
from their site to the hospitals.
The hospitals run out of gloves
because the vendor is unable to deliver them.
As a result, this impacts the care of Veterans.
In a competitive advantage situation,
the vendor would have locations in different areas
so the product can be retrieved from another site.
In another example, the hospital would have more than one
vendor in order to have more than one option available.
As a result, the hospitals would get the supplies
regardless of the disruption in the supply chain.
This would give VA an advantage over other hospitals
that do not practice this method.